Welcome to the final week
of teaching in this module.
Of course, you've got
quite a lot beyond this,
we've got 10 topics,
20 weeks, and you're
submitting a final
report on Week 25.
I imagine you still have
quite a lot of work to do.
But this is where I leave you.
This is where I handover.
You should be in a really
good position to get on with
your work and really well done
for getting to this stage.
It's a fantastic achievement.
You've completed most
of your core modules,
you probably got a few
more that you're doing at
the moment and you've
got to the stage of having a
close to complete projects.
Well done. You are
now entering the final
stage, which is delivery.
I'm sure you probably have
more development to
do, that's fine.
But it's time to start
thinking about the
delivery phase as well.
We normally say
delivery is weeks
20-25 though development
is still continuing.
This is where you complete
your final prototype,
your final implementation.
This should be something
that other people can use,
that you can hand over to a
marker and they can use it.
You're completing
your final report,
you're doing your
final evaluation,
which is going to
look a little bit
different from what
you've done so far.
You're going to do a
video presentation so
this is going to be a demo of
your work for your project.
That pretty much tells us
what you're doing this week.
You continue developments,
unit testing,
but look into your
final evaluation
and your video demo and
then your final report.
This is over the next 5-6
weeks. What's the video demo?
The video demo, this
is the opportunity
for you to show your
implementation.
Now I often find
when I'm handed in an
executable or some code,
it can be quite
hard to see exactly
what I should be looking
at or really making
sure I get all the features
and I've understood them fully.
I think it's always
very useful that
students like yourself are
able to show it themselves.
You interpret the demo yourself
so that anyone marking
or assessing the work can
see what's best about it,
so it's your opportunity
to show it off.
It's a 3-5 minute video
showing your project working.
You should explain the demo
and the main features,
give a voiceover so that
you people can understand
what you're looking at,
and explain it from a
user perspective if it's
a user focused project
or there's perspective
from the hypothesis.
How is it achieving your aims
or the needs of your users?
It's going to be
assessed in terms of
the overall quality of
the product or what
you've produced.
It's also something
that's going to be
marked together
with the reports.
Anyone who's marking it will
use this as well as the reports
to assess your work
so they're going to
be cross-referencing
between the two of them.
It's a really important
opportunity for you to
show your project working.
You may still have a few
weeks before you get to
producing this but be aware
it's a really important part,
even if it's a relatively
small proportion of the marks.
The other big thing
you're going to be
shifting now from is how
you're doing the evaluation.
Up to now, you've been testing
your project as a way
of informing development,
that's deeply important.
You've learned
throughout the course,
test as you go, iterate,
identify problems, use them
to improve the project.
But ultimately you
reach the end.
There's a point at which
you can't carry on
developing more.
In most projects, this isn't
necessarily when you've done
everything you've wanted to do.
Most projects because
you're new to it,
you've over-scoped it,
you've said you do
more than you really
can, to be honest,
that happens quite a lot in
professional projects as well,
that's why agile methods
were developed really.
They're developed to cope
with that over-scoping issue.
But it does mean that there's
a certain point where
you've decided it's enough,
particularly given the time
constraints of your projects.
You need to shift from how
to improve the project
to assessing how well it
is succeeded overall.
Has your project met
the aims that you're
intending to achieve?
That part is really important.
You go back to the
beginning and think,
the idea of this project
was based on the needs
of this group of users or this
domain or this hypothesis.
Have I answered the hypothesis?
Have I addressed the
needs of the users?
More importantly, how well?
Hopefully most of you will
have done those things,
but you might have done them
well in certain respects,
and less well in other respects.
You need to just balance those.
How have I done that very well?
How have I done it not so well?
What is it doing this project
told me about my
hypothesis and the users?
You maybe have learned
things that you weren't
aware of at the beginning,
and maybe there's issues
with the hypothesis itself.
Maybe it's just a little bit
more complicated than that.
Maybe the needs of users
are just a bit more
complicated than you
at first thought.
Once you've actually put
software in front of people,
you realize things that
you can't realize when
you first researched them.
They should be aware of
themselves when they start with.
There's quite a lot of learning
that you can do with
this evaluation stage.
It's very important to do that.
What does that final
evaluation look like?
Well, it depends on
the kind of projects.
You can have some
tests of you're
hypothesis and data designs,
you can do some
proper user testing,
some final user testing
or other forms of
software testing.
But it's really about,
it is a change of
focus from how do I
improve this to what
have I achieved,
how well have I achieved it?
It's tempting to gloss over
problems at this stage.
It's tempting to think,
I'll present this
in the best light,
so it's a good project.
But don't do that.
It's actually a very positive
activity or evaluation,
if you're able to highlight
the bad as well as the good,
or the issues, the things
that have changed.
In many senses, as
a marker I'd always
suspicious if somebody says,
"Yes, I've achieved exactly
what I wanted to do."
Nobody ever achieves exactly
what they want to do.
Every single project
involves learning,
and realizing things that
are more complex
and more difficult.
Bring those out and you'll
have a better evaluation.
You assess very much
on the evaluation
as well as the project itself.
These are things are
all very important.
How you do the evaluation will
depend a lot on your project,
a lot of suggestions
in your templates,
but the general principle of
how well have you
achieved the aims,
what have you learned,
what's new is important.
It can also include a certain
element of self-evaluation.
How well have you done?
What have you learned?
What could you have done better
or how has this changed your
thinking about projects?
After all, this is a degree,
this is really about
your learning.
The write-up is primarily
about the project,
but you can include a section if
you want on self-evaluation,
what have you learned.
That's good practice.
Just to recap how we're
going to mark this.
I discussed this previously,
but is the evaluation strategy
appropriate to the
aims of the project?
Are you really
evaluating the aims?
Have you got good coverage?
Are you assessing,
evaluating all of
the important issues
that could address your project?
Are the results of your
evaluation well presented?
Are they easy to understand?
Can the person reading
it understand both what
the results are and also how
you've drawn your conclusions
from your results?
How the data generates
those results?
Are you critically analyzing
the project based
on those results?
Are you really thinking
about those benefits?
This is what I was
talking about just now.
What have you learned? What's
new about the project?
What has not succeeded so well,
and what have you
realized that's different
from your original aims?
Importantly, this is
using the results.
This would be very much
grounded in any data,
any user evaluation or
any driven evaluation
that you have.
The little crowning
glory will be,
is this project display
evidence of originality.
Again, as I said last
time, you don't need to.
If you get zero for this,
that's absolutely fine.
Most projects get zero for this.
But it is there
for people who want to push
themselves a little bit harder.
In a sense, the last
thing we're going
to talk about is
the final report.
This is the culmination
of the project.
This is your main thing you're
going to be submitting.
It's a written document,
and it has a number of sections.
We've gone through this
before because it's
the same sections that we
have in the draft report.
It has; introduction,
design, literature review.
These are really what
you did originally in the
first half of the course,
but you will have a lot
of feedback on them.
You will have had feedback from
your draft report that can
inform new revisions of them.
You're doing an implementation
and you will have had some
feedback on the draft version,
but also you'll have
done a lot more.
There's more to put in there,
so expand that section.
The evaluation section
is probably the one
that's going to change
the most because
you're really shifting gear from
an evaluation as a way of
informing your development to
an overall what we call
a summative evaluation.
Summative, we use that for
when you get your grades,
you finish your work, but also
re-summative of the project.
How well has your
project succeeded?
Then the conclusion.
This is likely to
change as well a bit,
as I said last time.
This can just be a simple
summary of what you've done,
but there might also be some
important themes that you've
discovered and learned
about that you want to
highlight that don't
appear elsewhere,
or you might want to suggest
some important further work.
Is there anything that you would
do if you had time and
how would you do that?
That's an opportunity, but
that's a short section,
but this is what we're looking
for on the final report.
This is written in more detail
in the submission area.
Don't worry to write
this down [inaudible]
You can consult that
more if you want
more detail. Here we are.
We're nearing the end.
There, of course, are
several more weeks.
You've got more
implementation to do.
You got the final report.
I haven't mentioned the exam.
That's another important
part of what you're doing.
It will be a standard exam
under exam conditions,
you'll be asked certain
questions about your project.
This is a way of us just
making sure it's yours.
Just checking that it's
your project and
you understand it.
But also a way of kind
of probing a little bit
of depth about certain aspects
of your project through
written answers.
It's an important part.
It's only 20 percent
of the mark,
it's not the majority
of the mark, but
it's something to prepare for.
Otherwise, you're near the end.
This is as I said,
the culmination of your degree.
You've got five
or six more weeks
in which to complete this.
This is probably the
most substantial piece
of work you've done in
computer science so far.
I hope it's something
you'd be proud of.
that you can show
employers as part of
a portfolio to really
demonstrate what
you're going to do.
But I also hope it's
something you've enjoyed.
I hope it's something that
you've gone through
this process of doing,
something that you're
passionate about,
that is your own, and hopefully,
you've learned a lot about
how to do software project,
how to develop, how to program,
but also all of the,
I hate the word,
but soft skills,
the time management,
the thinking about users,
the planning that is
involved in the project.
You will have learned a lot.
I think almost all
of you, this will
be the last phase
of your degree.
You can be immensely proud of
everything you've achieved.
You've learned lot about
computer science over years.
You've learned many
different topics
and many different modules.
You've achieved many different
projects, small and large,
you've taken exams,
you've learned things,
you've applied your knowledge.
Finally here, you applying
it in the deepest,
largest scale way to achieve
a large-scale project that
really demonstrates what you can
do and it's something
you can be proud of,
that you should be proud of.
You should remember that
you've achieved
something fantastic.
That should be something
that goes with
you in the rest of
your life as a professional
computer scientist.